did you know more than 50 million
Americans knit or crochet even
superstars ryan gosling mm-hmm
Julia Roberts David Arquette and
Catherine zeta-jones are avid knitters
and it's no wonder that knitting is one
of America's favorite pastime
because knitting is actually a
de-stressor and can actually lower your
heart rate by about 10 beats per minute
really and in her book becoming a
knitting superstar Leah got tells us how
knitting can save our lives well I like
anything that's my life thank you so
much for being here Julia Roberts and
Ryan Gosling are avid knitters but you
don't have to be a superstar to be a
superstar knitter let's start with what
are five ways that knitting can really
save our lives
because it's almost too good to be true
in my head check this out number one
I've had over 500 students tell me how
knitting saved their sanity okay when
they were hospitalized after a
debilitating injury like being paralyzed
or losing the ability to walk knitting
actually helped them get through that
many people took up knitting after they
got injured that's what helped them get
through so the next time you find
yourself in the hospital send for a pair
of knitting needles stat that's the
first way right that's the first way
number 2 knitting can help people
recover from traumatic brain injury
recover their motor function I had a
student tell me about how she had a golf
ball-sized brain bleed that caused her
to seizures and a stroke taking up
knitting actually helped her regain the
use of her hands when nothing else could
that's incredible right yes number three
knitting is a relaxing sanctuary that
can bring you back into balance when
life gets too crazy which we all can say
that yeah when it's so hectic that you
can't even think straight knitting is
there to like you said lower your heart
rate get you back down into balance
again
that's incredible number four knitting
is can help you stay cool in situations
that would just make people absolutely
crazy no picture this okay like you're
in your car driving with your boyfriend
he took a wrong turn you're supposed to
just go downtown instead you're out in
the boonies and like you got Google Maps
right there but he won't look at it
right you're already right already Oh
bitch you just smile and you take up
your knitting and you're like maybe just
let me know when we're there I know you
know we're good your relationship and
you saved your sanity oh and last but
not least knitting is a proven therapy
for treating anorexia and bulimia
hi I would I because it gives people of
something else to focus on other than
that addiction which it basically is I
would know because I've been there it
was actually in a treatment facility for
an eating disorder that knitting first
saved my life I think thank you for
sharing that that's a really big deal
and you know I also see I see a lot of
older people out like my grandmother and
all her friends they knit because it
keeps them active keeps their brain and
their body active in their own you know
with emotion skills and you actually
have what you call a knit formula which
i think is really cool it teaches people
to become the superstars of their own
life like you said so what is that
formula K stands for know you can do it
with knitting we prove that to ourselves
every day yeah and no freaking out
you're gonna make mistakes especially if
you're trying something new right when
it happens to stay calm
get over yourself so you can work
through it I be intrepid you have to
have courage in your life with knitting
you can practice being courageous all
your risk are a few tangles and tea and
transform your mistakes into
opportunities you know making mistakes
can be uncomfortable but when you make a
mistake that is your chance to learn and
grow and that is how you can use lessons
from learns from knitting to become a
superstar in your life I love that I
know our viewers are going to want to
learn how to knit with you you also can
tell us what the what we need to get
started all the different things so how
can they do that you know all you need
to get started really is the desire and
you know a ball of a ball of yarn and
submitting needles okay perfect
and obviously knit freedom wishlist
right that's we have WWN it freedom calm
okay and ITF REE do em calm amazing kind
of times I'm ready yeah thank you thank
you so much I'm so excited help everyone
in New Mexico becoming eating super star